



ntp                                                              R. Salz
Internet-Draft                                       Akamai Technologies
Updates: 2028, 3668, 3979, 8717 (if approved)           1 September 2021
Intended status: Best Current Practice                                  
Expires: 5 March 2022


         The Entitities Involved in the IETF Standards Process
                       draft-rsalz-2028bis-latest

Abstract

   This document describes the individuals and organizations involved in
   the IETF.  This includes descriptions of the IESG, the IETF Working
   Groups and the relationship between the IETF and the Internet
   Society.

Discussion Venues

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the mailing list (), which
   is archived at .

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/richsalz/draft-ietf-rfc2028bis.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 5 March 2022.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Simplified BSD License text
   as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Simplified BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  The IETF Standards Process
   2.  Key individuals in the Process
     2.1.  The Document Editor) or Authors)
     2.2.  The Working Group Chair
     2.3.  The Area Director
     2.4.  The Request for Comments Editor
   3.  Key organizations in the Process
     3.1.  Internet Engineering Task Force
     3.2.  IETF Working Groups
     3.3.  IETF Secretariat
     3.4.  Internet Society
     3.5.  Internet Engineering Steering Group
     3.6.  Internet Architecture Board
     3.7.  Internet Assigned Numbers Authority
     3.8.  Internet Research Task Force
   4.  Security Considerations
   5.  IANA Considerations
   6.  Acknowledgements
   7.  Normative References
   Author's Address

1.  The IETF Standards Process

   The process used by the Internet community for the standardization of
   protocols and procedures is described in [IETFPROCS].  That document
   defines the stages in the standardization process, the requirements
   for moving a document between stages and the types of documents used
   during this process.  It also addresses the intellectual property
   rights and copyright issues associated with the standards process.

2.  Key individuals in the Process

   This section describes the individual roles involved in the process.
   It attempts to list the roles in the order in which they are involved
   in the process, but no meaning is otherwise attached.

   Roles are listed as singular, but more than one individual can be
   involved.

2.1.  The Document Editor) or Authors)

   Most IETF Working Groups focus their efforts on a document, or set of
   documents, that capture the results of the group's work.  A Working
   Group generally designates a person or persons to serve as the Editor
   for a particular document.  The Document Editor is responsible for
   ensuring that the contents of the document accurately reflect the
   decisions that have been made by the working group.

   As a general practice, the Working Group Chair and Document Editor
   positions are filled by different individuals to help ensure that the
   resulting documents accurately reflect the consensus of the Working
   Group and that all processes are followed.

2.2.  The Working Group Chair

   Each IETF Working Group is headed by a chair (or by co-chairs) with
   the responsibility for directing the group's activities, presiding
   over the group's meetings, and ensuring that the commitments of the
   group with respect to its role in the Internet standards process are
   met.  In particular, the WG chair is the formal point of contact
   between the WG and the IESG, via the Area Director of the area to
   which the WG is assigned.

   The details on the selection and responsibilites of an IETF Working
   Group chair can be found in [WGPROCS].

2.3.  The Area Director

   The Area Director assigned as the "Reponsible Area Director" for the
   working will review the document after the working has approved its
   last call, and when satisfied will request it to be put on the IESG
   agenda.

2.4.  The Request for Comments Editor

   The RFC publication series [IETFPROCS] is managed by an Editor (which
   may in practice be one or more individuals) responsible both for the
   mechanics of RFC publication and for upholding the traditionally high
   technical and editorial standards of the RFC series.

   The functions of the RFC Editor are performed by one or more
   individuals or organizations selected in accordance with the
   procedures defined by the RFC Editor charter, TBD.

3.  Key organizations in the Process

   The following organizations and organizational roles are involved in
   the Internet standards process.

3.1.  Internet Engineering Task Force

   The Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) is an open international
   community of network designers, operators, vendors and researchers
   concerned with the evolution of the Internet architecture and the
   smooth operation of the Internet.  It is the principal body engaged
   in the development of new Internet Standard specifications.

3.2.  IETF Working Groups

   The technical work of the IETF is done in its Working Groups, which
   are organized by topics into several Areas (e.g., routing, network
   management, security, etc.) under the coordination of Area Directors.
   Working Groups typically have a narrow focus and a lifetime bounded
   by completion of a specific task.

   For all purposes relevant to the Internet Standards development
   process, membership in the IETF and its Working Groups is defined to
   be established solely and entirely by individual participation in
   IETF and Working Group activities.  Participation in the IETF and its
   Working Groups is by individual technical contributors rather than by
   formal representatives of organizations.

   Anyone with the time and interest to do so is entitled and urged to
   participate actively in one or more IETF Working Groups and to attend
   IETF meetings which are held three times a year.  In most cases
   active Working Group participation is possible through electronic
   mail alone.  Internet video conferencing is also being used to allow
   for remote participation.

   To ensure a fair and open process, participants in the IETF and its
   Working Groups must be able to disclose, and must disclose to the
   Working Group chairs any relevant current or pending intellectual
   property rights that are reasonably and personally known to the
   participant if they participate in discussions about a specific
   technology.

   New Working Groups are established within the IETF by explicit
   charter.  The guidelines and procedures for the formation and
   operation of IETF working groups are described in detail in
   [WGPROCS].

   A Working Group is managed by one or more Working Group chairs (see
   section 2.2).  It may also include editors of documents that record
   the group's work (see section 2.3).  Further details of Working Group
   operation are contained in [WGPROCS]

   IETF Working Groups display a spirit of cooperation as well as a high
   degree of technical maturity; IETF participants recognize that the
   greatest benefit for all members of the Internet community results
   from cooperative development of technically superior protocols and
   services.

3.3.  IETF Secretariat

   The administrative functions necessary to support the activities of
   the IETF are performed by a Secretariat consisting of the IETF
   Executive Director and his or her staff.  The IETF Executive Director
   is the formal point of contact for matters concerning any and all
   aspects of the Internet standards process, and is responsible for
   maintaining the formal public record of the Internet standards
   process [IETFPROCS].

3.4.  Internet Society

   The Internet Society (ISOC) is an international organization
   concerned with the growth and evolution of the worldwide Internet and
   with the social, political, and technical issues that arise from its
   use.  The ISOC is an organization with individual and organizational
   members.  The ISOC is managed by a Board of Trustees elected by the
   worldwide individual membership.

   Internet standardization is an organized activity of the ISOC, with
   the Board of Trustees being responsible for ratifying the procedures
   and rules of the Internet standards process [IETFPROCS].

   The way in which the members of the ISOC Board of Trustees are
   selected, and other matters concerning the operation of the Internet
   Society, are described in the ISOC By Laws [ISOC].

3.5.  Internet Engineering Steering Group

   The Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG) is the part of the
   Internet Society responsible for the management of the IETF technical
   activities.  It administers the Internet Standards process according
   to the rules and procedures defined in [IETFPROCS].  The IESG is
   responsible for the actions associated with the progression of
   technical specification along the "standards track" including the
   initial approval of new Working Groups and the final approval of
   specifications as Internet Standards.  The IESG is composed of the
   IETF Area Directors and the chair of the IETF, who also serves as the
   chair of the IESG.

   The members of the IESG are nominated by a nominations committee (the
   Nomcom), and are approved by the IAB.  See [NOMCOM] for a detailed
   description of the Nomcom procedures.  Other matters concerning its
   organization and operation, are described in the IESG charter [IESG].

3.6.  Internet Architecture Board

   The Internet Architecture Board (IAB) is chartered by the Internet
   Society Trustees to provide oversight of the architecture of the
   Internet and its protocols.  The IAB appoints the IETF chair and is
   responsible for approving other IESG candidates put forward by the
   IETF nominating committee.  The IAB is also responsible for reviewing
   and approving the charters of new Working Groups that are proposed
   for the IETF.

   The IAB provides oversight of the process used to create Internet
   Standards and serves as an appeal board for complaints of improper
   execution of the standards process [IETFPROCS].  In general it acts
   as source of advice to the IETF, the ISOC and the ISOC Board of
   Trustees concerning technical, architectural, procedural, and policy
   matters pertaining to the Internet and its enabling technologies.

   The members of the IAB are nominated by a nominations committee (the
   Nomcom), and are approved by the ISOC board.  See [NOMCOM] for a
   detailed description of the Nomcom procedures.  The membership of the
   IAB consists of members selected by the Nomcom process and the IETF
   chair sitting as a ex-officio member.  Other matters concerning its
   organization and operation, are described in the IAB charter [IAB].

3.7.  Internet Assigned Numbers Authority

   Many protocol specifications include numbers, keywords, and other
   parameters that must be uniquely assigned.  Examples include version
   numbers, protocol numbers, port numbers, and MIB numbers.  The
   Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) is responsible for
   assigning the values of these protocol parameters for the Internet.
   The IANA publishes tables of all currently assigned numbers and
   parameters in RFCs entitled "Assigned Numbers" [NOMCOM].  The IANA
   functions as the "top of the pyramid" for DNS and Internet Address
   assignment establishing policies for these functions.

   The functions of the IANA are performed by one or more individuals or
   organizations selected in accordance with the procedures defined by
   the IANA charter [IANA].

3.8.  Internet Research Task Force

   The Internet Research Task Force (IRTF) is not directly involved in
   the Internet standards process.  It investigates topics considered to
   be too uncertain, too advanced, or insufficiently well-understood to
   be the subject of Internet standardization.  When an IRTF activity
   generates a specification that is sufficiently stable to be
   considered for Internet standardization, the specification is
   processed through the IETF using the rules in this document.

   The IRTF is composed of individual Working Groups, but its structure
   and mode of operation is much less formal than that of the IETF, due
   in part to the fact that it does not participate directly in the
   Internet standards process.  The organization and program of work of
   the IRTF is overseen by the Internet Research Steering Group (IRSG),
   which consists of the chairs of the IRTF Working Groups.  Details of
   the organization and operation of the IRTF and its Working Groups may
   be found in [IRTF].

4.  Security Considerations

   Security is not addressed in this memo.

5.  IANA Considerations

   None.

6.  Acknowledgements

   The authors of this document would like to thank the IETF
   participants at the time [RFC2028] was written; in particular, those
   involved with what was called the POISED effort and the authors of
   that document, Richard Hovey and Scott Bradner.

   some folks.

7.  Normative References

   [IAB]      Internet Architecture Board and B. Carpenter, Ed.,
              "Charter of the Internet Architecture Board (IAB)",
              BCP 39, RFC 2850, DOI 10.17487/RFC2850, May 2000,
              <https://doi.org/10.17487/RFC2850>.

   [IANA]     "IANA", n.d., <https://www.ietf.org/standards/iana>.

   [IESG]     Alvestrand, H., "An IESG charter", RFC 3710,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC3710, February 2004,
              <https://doi.org/10.17487/RFC3710>.

   [IETFPROCS]
              Bradner, S., "The Internet Standards Process -- Revision
              3", BCP 9, RFC 2026, DOI 10.17487/RFC2026, October 1996,
              <https://doi.org/10.17487/RFC2026>.

   [IRTF]     Weinrib, A. and J. Postel, "IRTF Research Group Guidelines
              and Procedures", BCP 8, RFC 2014, DOI 10.17487/RFC2014,
              October 1996, <https://doi.org/10.17487/RFC2014>.

   [ISOC]     "Amended and restatated By-Laws of the Internet Society",
              n.d., <https://www.internetsociety.org/about-internet-
              society/governance-policies/by-laws/>.

   [NOMCOM]   Kucherawy, M., Ed., Hinden, R., Ed., and J. Livingood,
              Ed., "IAB, IESG, IETF Trust, and IETF LLC Selection,
              Confirmation, and Recall Process: Operation of the IETF
              Nominating and Recall Committees", BCP 10, RFC 8713,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8713, February 2020,
              <https://doi.org/10.17487/RFC8713>.

   [RFC2028]  Hovey, R. and S. Bradner, "The Organizations Involved in
              the IETF Standards Process", BCP 11, RFC 2028,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2028, October 1996,
              <https://doi.org/10.17487/RFC2028>.

   [WGPROCS]  Bradner, S., "IETF Working Group Guidelines and
              Procedures", BCP 25, RFC 2418, DOI 10.17487/RFC2418,
              September 1998, <https://doi.org/10.17487/RFC2418>.

Author's Address

   Rich Salz
   Akamai Technologies

   Email: rsalz@akamai.com
